docs: contract storage design doc (#360)
kkrt-labs/kakarot-ssj: docs/general/model/contract_storage.md

# Kakarot Storage

## Storage in Ethereum

The top-level data structure that holds information about the state of the
Ethereum blockchain is called the _world state_, and is a mapping of Ethereum
addresses (160-bit values) to accounts. Each Ethereum address represents an
account composed by a _nonce_, an _ether balance_, a _storage_, and a _code_. We
make the distinction between EOA (Externally Owned Accounts) that have no code

> and an empty storage, and contracts that can have code and storage.

Reviewer: Here we could add an image from https://takenobu-hs.github.io/downloads/ethereum_evm_illustrated.pdf and add the source

Smth like 
<img width="1052" alt="image" src="https://github.com/kkrt-labs/kakarot-ssj/assets/66871571/41c703ce-155a-4e60-ba7a-8983073b98c8">

- It updates the `value` associated to a `key` of the storage of a contract
  deployed at a specific `address`. However, it updates a `dirtyStorage`, which
  refers to storage entries that have been modified in the current transaction
  execution.
- It tracks the storage modifications in a `journal` so that it can be reverted
  in case of a revert opcode or an exception in the transaction execution.
- At the end of the execution of a transaction, all dirty storage slots are
  copied across to `pendingStorage`, which in turn is copied across to
  `originStorage` when the trie is finally updated. This effectively updates the
  storage root of the account state.

The behavior for the SLOAD opcode is very complementary to the SSTORE opcode.
When Geth executes the SLOAD opcode, it does the following:

- It starts by doing a check on `dirtyStorage` to see if it contains a value for
  the queried key, and returns it if so.
- Otherwise, it retrieves the value from the committed account storage trie.

Since one transaction can access a storage slot multiple times, we must ensure
that the result returned is the most recent value. This is why Geth first checks

> `dirtyStorage`, which is the most up-to-date state of the storage.

Reviewer: I think this section deserves a smol mermaid diagram

  in the case of a smart contract (no bytecode for an EOA).
- Each contract account has external functions that can be called by Kakarot to
  read the bytecode it stores and to read / write to its storage. This makes
  Kakarot an effective "admin" to all contracts with rights to modify their
  storage.
- SLOAD/SSTORE opcodes are used to read/write to storage and perform a
  `contract_call_syscall` to modify the storage of the remote contract.

However, this design has some limitations:

- We perform a `call_contract_syscall` for each SLOAD/SSTORE, which is
  expensive. Given that only KakarotCore can modify the storage of a Kakarot
  contract, we could directly store the whole world state in the main Kakarot
  contract storage.
- It adds external entrypoints with admin rights to read and write from storage
  in each Kakarot contract. This is not ideal from a security perspective.
- It moves away from the traditional EVM design, in which execution clients
  store account states in a common database backend.

Therefore, we will not use this design in SSJ. We will instead use the second
design presented thereafter.

### A shared storage space for all Kakarot Contracts

> The second approach is to have a single storage space for all Kakarot contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second approach is to have a single storage space for all Kakarot contract accounts.
```

While Kakarot is not a traditional Ethereum Client, we can still use a design
that is similar. Traditional clients hold a state database in which the account
states are stored. We can do the same, but instead of storing the account states
in a database, we store them in the KakarotCore contract storage. Therefore, we
do not need to deploy a Starknet contract for each Kakarot account contract,
which saves users costs related to deploying contracts.

A contract’s storage on Starknet is a persistent storage space where you can
read, write, modify, and persist data. The storage is a map with $2^{251}$
slots, where each slot is a felt which is initialized to 0.

This new model doesn't expose read and write methods on Kakarot contracts.
Instead of having $n$ contracts with `write_storage` and `read_storage`
entrypoints, the only way to update the storage of a Kakarot contract is now
through executing SLOAD / SSTORE internally to KakarotCore.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: should we add the accumulator as a participant between interpreter and contractstate?

- When executing a transaction, instead of using one `storage_write_syscall` per
  SSTORE opcode, we can simply store the storage changes in this journal. At the
  end of the transaction, we can finalize all the storage writes together and
  perform only one `storage_write_syscall` per modified storage address.
- When reading from storage, we can first read from the journal to see if the
  storage slot has been modified. If it's the case, we can read the new value
  from the journal instead of performing a `storage_read_syscall`.
- If the transaction reverts, we won't need to revert the storage changes
  manually. Instead, we can simply not finalize the storage changes present in
  the journal, which can save a lot of gas.

### Implementation

The SSTORE and SLOAD opcodes are implemented to first read and write to the
`Journal` instead of directly writing to the KakarotCore contract's storage.

Using the `storage_read_syscall` and `storage_write_syscall` syscalls, we can
arbitrarily read and write to a contract's storage. Therefore, we will be able
to simply implement the SSTORE and SLOAD opcodes as follows:

```rust
  // SSTORE

>   let storage_address = poseidon_hash(evm_address, storage_slot);

Reviewer: is storage_slot in this situation a u256?

Author: Yes, it's the key popped from the stack which is a 32-bytes value
